{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf230
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 GillSans;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red102\green102\blue102;}
\vieww20180\viewh20620\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Types of Machine Learning Algorithms
\i0\b0\fs20 \cf2  (book)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 Author\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Taiwo Oladipupo Ayodele\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Annote\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Gives some nice information on the differenct types of learning:\
- Supervised learning\
- Unsupervised learning\
- Semi-supervised learning\
- Reinforcement learning\
- Transduction\
- Learning to learn\
\
with examples of algorithms for each, as well as background information.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b0\fs20 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\i\b\fs28 \cf0 The Complete History of Lemmings
\i0\b0\fs20 \cf2  (webpage)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 Url\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 http://www.javalemmings.com/DMA/Lem_1.htm\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Lastchecked\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 2011-10-21\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Author\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Mike Dailly\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Note\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 The history of Lemmings, as documented by one of the developers\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b0\fs20 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\i\b\fs28 \cf0 CS229: Machine Learning
\i0\b0\fs20 \cf2  (webpage)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 Url\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 http://cs229.stanford.edu/\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Lastchecked\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 2011-10-21\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Note\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Homepage of the CS229 module: Machine Learning. Contains all of the lecture slides and handouts etc.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Organization\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Stanford University
\b \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural
\cf0 Remote URLs\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 http://cs229.stanford.edu/\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\fs20 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Machine Learning YouTube Playlist
\i0\b0\fs20 \cf2  (webpage)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 Url\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 http://www.youtube.com/view_play_list?p=A89DCFA6ADACE599\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Lastchecked\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 2011-10-21\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Author\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Andrew Ng\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Note\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 YouTube playlist of the lectures for the CS229 module: Machine Learning. Lots of useful information about the different types of learning, algorithms etc.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Organization\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Stanford University
\b \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Recognizing the Enemy: Combining Reinforcement Learning with Strategy Selection using Case-Based Reasoning
\i0\b0\fs20 \cf2  (article)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 Author\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Bryan Auslander and Stephen Lee-Urban and Chad Hogg and Hector Munoz-Avila\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Journal\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 ECCBR '08 Proceedings of the 9th European conference on Advances in Case-Based Reasoning\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Year\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 2008\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Pages\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 15\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Abstract\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 This paper presents CBRetaliate, an agent that combines Case-Based Reasoning (CBR) and Reinforcement Learning (RL) algorithms. Unlike most previous work where RL is used to improve accuracy in the action selection process, CBRetaliate uses CBR to allow RL to respond more quickly to changing conditions. CBRetaliate combines two key features: it uses a time window to compute similarity and stores and reuses complete Q-tables for continuous problem solving. We demon- strate CBRetaliate on a team-based first-person shooter game, where our combined CBR+RL approach adapts quicker to changing tactics by an opponent than standalone RL.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Annote\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Summary:\
\
Research into using case-based reasoning to allow reinforcement learning to respond more quickly to to changing conditions. A definite focus on the implementation.\
\
Gives a nice introduction to the use of reinforcement learning in games.\
\
"In this paper we present CBRetaliate, an agent that uses Case-Based Reasoning (CBR) techniques to enhance the Retaliate RL agent. Unlike most previous work where RL is used to improve accuracy in the case selection process, CBRetaliate uses CBR to jump quickly to previously stored policies rather than slowly adapting to changing conditions"\
\
If the system is doing 'well', it stores the current case for later reference.\
\
Some nice, in-depth discussion of the algorithms used in the research, as well as the reasoning behind them - could be useful for designing my own algorithms later (also some pseudocode examples).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b0\fs20 \cf2 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Rapid and Reliable Adaptation of Rapid and Reliable Adaptation of Video Game AI
\i0\b0\fs20 \cf2  (article)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 Author\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Sander Bakkes and Pieter Spronck and Jaap van den Herik\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Journal\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Transactions on Computational Intelligence and AI in Games\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Year\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 2009\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Volume\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 1\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Number\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 2\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Pages\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 12\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Month\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 June\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Abstract\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Current approaches to adaptive game AI typically require numerous trials to learn effective behaviour (i.e., game adaptation is not rapid). In addition, game developers are concerned that applying adaptive game AI may result in un- controllable and unpredictable behaviour (i.e., game adaptation is not reliable). These characteristics hamper the incorporation of adaptive game AI in commercially available video games. In this article, we discuss an alternative to these current approaches. Our alternative approach to adaptive game AI has as its goal adapting rapidly and reliably to game circumstances. Our approach can be classified in the area of case-based adaptive game AI. In the approach, domain knowledge required to adapt to game circumstances is gathered automatically by the game AI, and is exploited immediately (i.e., without trials and without resource- intensive learning) to evoke effective behaviour in a controlled manner in online play. We performed experiments that test case- based adaptive game AI on three different maps in a commercial RTS game. From our results we may conclude that case-based adaptive game AI provides a strong basis for effectively adapting game AI in video games.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Annote\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Summary:\
\
Discusses an alternative method to learning which functions without trials and without resource- intensive learning. Uses a downoaded 'case base' of previously played games to develop a strategy.\
\
Some nice discussion on the different types of learning found in games (adaptive AI, difficulty scaling etc.)\
\
Mostly focussed towards Real-Time Strategy games.\
\
Very nice in-depth descriptions (with examples) of the implementation of the learning.\
\
Nice description of what constitutes an entertaining game:\
"The purpose of a typical video game is to provide en- tertainment [1], [4]. Naturally, the criteria of what makes a game entertaining is dependent on who is playing the game. The literature suggests the concept of immersion as a general measure of entertainment [5], [6]. Immersion is the state of consciousness where an immersant's awareness of physical self is diminished or lost by being surrounded in an engrossing, often artificial environment [7]. Taylor argues that evoking an immersed feeling by a video game is essential for retaining a player's interest in the game [6]. As such, an entertaining game should at the very least not repel the feeling of immersion from the player [8]. Aesthetical elements of a video game such as graphical and auditory presentation are instrumental in establishing an immersive game environment."\
\
"it is not uncommon that a game has finished before any effective behaviour could be established, or that game characters in a game do not live sufficiently long to benefit from learning"\
\
"in our approach we consider that the challenge that is provided by the game AI should be adaptable to fit individual players"\
\
Adaptation mechanism:\
// Offline processing\
A1. Game indexing; calculate indexes for all stored games.\
A2. Clustering of observations; group together similar observations.\
// Initialisation of game AI\
B1. Establish the (most likely) strategy of the opponent player.\
B2. Determine to which parameter\uc0\u8722 band values this opponent strategy can be abstracted.\
B3. Initialise game AI with an effective strategy observed against the opponent with the most similar parameter\uc0\u8722 band values.\
// Online strategy selection\
C1. Use game indexes to select the N most similar games.\
C2. Of the selected N games , select the M games that best satisfy the goal criterion .\
C3. Of the selected M games , select the most similar observation .\
C4. Perform the game strategy stored for the selected observation .\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Organization\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 IEEE
\b \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Evolutionary Entertainment with Intelligent Agents
\i0\b0\fs20 \cf2  (article)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 Author\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 David B. Fogel\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Journal\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Computer\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Year\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 2003\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Volume\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 36\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Number\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 6\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Pages\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 3\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Month\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 June\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Abstract\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 A common limitation of conventional video games is that players quickly learn the positions and behavior of computer-controlled characters, which usually take the form of monsters. \
\
Software developers pre-program these characteristics so, after playing the game several times, the player comes to know exactly how and when the monsters will act.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Annote\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Summary:\
\
Author is CEO of Natural Selection Inc.\
\
Interesting article documenting an experiment into using neural networks to devvelop a checkers playing program.\
\
The system was run for about 6 months (840 generations of its evolution) and tested on www.zone.com against real players, where it gained a 'master' rating awarded to the top 500 players out of 120,000.
\b \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Creating Intelligent Agents in Games
\i0\b0\fs20 \cf2  (article)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 Author\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Risto Miikkulainen\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Year\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 2006\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Volume\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Winter\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Pages\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 9\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Abstract\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Video games provide an ideal platform for the development and testing of machine-learning techniques.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Annote\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Summary:\
\
Focuses on neuroevolution\
\
Gives some examples of where machine learning has been used recently (early 00s)\
\
Has a nice summary of research in the area including NEAT & NERO.\
\
NeuroEvolution of Augmenting Topologies (NEAT) - evolving neural network appropriate for video games\
\
\
Quotes:\
\
"\'85a large part of AI development is devoted to path-finding algorithms"\
\
"a large part of the gameplay in many games is figuring out what the AI is programmed to do and learning to defeat it"\
\
Evolutionary computation: "Each solution is evaluated in the task and assigned a fit- ness based on how well it performs. Individuals with high fitness are then reproduced (by crossing over their encodings) and mutated (by randomly changing components of their encodings with a low probability). The offspring of the high-fitness individu- als replace the low-fitness individuals in the popula- tion, and over time, solu- tions that can solve the task are discovered"\
\
"Neuroevolution is particularly well suited to video games because (1) it works well in high-dimensional spaces; (2) diverse populations can be maintained; (3) individual networks behave consistently; (4) adaptation takes place in real time; and (5) memory can be implemented through recur- rency (Gomez et al., 2006; Stanley et al., 2005)"\
\
"Entirely new game genres can be developed, such as machine-learning games, in which the player explicitly trains game agents to perform vari- ous tasks"\
\
"To rtNEAT, [the sliders] represent coefficients for fitness components. For exam- ple, the sliders specify how much to reward or punish agents for approaching enemies, hitting targets, getting hit, following friends, dispersing, etc."
\b \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\i\b\fs28 \cf0 AI Game Programmers Guild
\i0\b0\fs20 \cf2  (webpage)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 Url\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 http://gameai.com/\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Lastchecked\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 6/11/11\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Abstract\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Founded in 2008, the AI Game Programmers Guild currently consists of over 200 professional game AI developers from all across the industry and from around the world. Our mission is to develop and promote excellence in game AI through education, community, and recognition.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Annote\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Blogs, papers, presentations, videos etc. posted by industry professionals in the area of game AI.
\b \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural
\cf0 Remote URLs\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 http://gameai.com/\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Artificial Intelligence in Games
\i0\b0\fs20 \cf2  (unpublished)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 Author\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 James Wexler\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Note\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Undergraduate assignment?\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Year\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 2002\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Abstract\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 With its latest release ``Black and White'', Lionhead Studios has set the new standard for artificial intelligence in games. Creatures in this game have an incredible ability to learn that is implemented through a variety of AI algorithms and techniques. There is much that could be added to the game given ample time and computing resources. These additions include a partial order planner for creatures' actions, a game-state search algorithm and planner for a computer-controlled opponent, and a dynamic lookup table to create better battling creatures.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Annote\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Summary:\
\
Gives a nice history of video games with respect to their use of AI. Started in the mid-sixties with Pong (and similar)\
\
A nice description of the type of AI techniques used in Black & White:\
-Example of a decision tree/weighting of actions\
- Richard Evens (Black & White AI developer) ``A decision tree is built by looking at the attributes which best divide the learning episodes into groups with similar feedback values. The best decision tree is the one that minimizes entropy, a measure of how disordered the feedbacksare. Thealgorithmusedtodynamicallyconstructdecision-treesto minimize entropy is based on (Ross) Quinlan's ID3 system."\
\
Other Notes:\
\
- Poorly written in places\
- Needs more references\
- Numerous subjective statements ("wonders of AI", "incredible")\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Playing Smart - Artificial Intelligence in Computer Games
\i0\b0\fs20 \cf2  (article)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b\fs24 \cf0 Author\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Eike F Anderson\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Year\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 2003\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Abstract\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 With this document we will present an overview of artificial intelligence in general and artificial intelligence in the context of its use in modern computer games in particular. To this end we will firstly provide an introduction to the terminology of artificial intelligence, followed by a brief history of this field of computer science and finally we will discuss the impact which this science has had on the development of computer games. This will be further illustrated by a number of case studies, looking at how artificially intelligent behaviour has been achieved in selected games.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Annote\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Summary:\
\
Section 2 gives quite a nice overview of the history of AI, and some major developments/events in AI from 1931-1997.\
\
Section 4 gives a nice summary of the main game AI techniques (rule-based, machine learning, extensible AI, knowledge-based) Bacl & While uses decision trees to implement reinforcement  learning.\
\
\
Other Notes:\
\
- Not particularly well written\
- Some unsubstantiated claims\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Organization\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 The National Centre for Computer Animation (NCCA)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Publisher\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1000\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 ZFX 3D Entertainment
\b \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
}